jesa albanesi is the UN special reporter
on the occupied Palestinian territory
and joins me now from Milan miss
albanesi good to have you with us on
alaz thank you very much for your time
we know how valuable it is uh during
this period of the Year some pretty
Stark and dire accusations being made by
that Israeli Israeli spokesperson that
the UN is complicit partners of Hamas
are you complicit partners of
Hamas of course not of course I'm not of
course the secret General is not of
course Ocha anra and all un agencies are
not but again these are the usual
accusations by Israel to the United
Nations and to whomever denounces the
Absurd and criminal practices of Israel
this is not new Israel targets the
messenger this is what it has been doing
for decades now but now you see it's
paradoxical Israel has killed 20,000
people 70% of whom are women and
children Israel has devastated Gaza
Israel has destroyed Gaza and we are
still blaming the UN I still wonder how
the International Community gives credit
to Israel and how International media
still give credit to what Israeli
leaders political and military leaders
say Israel should be held accountable
for what it does so let's unpick this
now very slowly let's start with the no
visas for un staff can Israel do this
legally no this is something that me my
predecessor my predecessor's predecessor
and his predecessors have gone through
for 17 years now Israel abuses of its
powers as an occupying power in Gaza in
the West Bank and East Jerusalem because
Israel doesn't have sovereignity over
these territories so as long as it
Remains the de facto occupying power it
should abide by international law and
its un obligations it cannot retaliate
against anyone according to its own
interpretation of un rules which is what
he does so we have now let's move on to
the indiscriminate bombing of medical
facilities is that in compliance with
international law adding to this
arresting and detaining medical workers
laying Siege to medical facilities
cutting off power and refusing Medical
Aid to reach Hospitals and Clinics these
are the facts as we've seen during this
so-called self-proclaimed Israeli War on
Gaza so I ask you has Israel done enough
to keep Palestinian civilians
safe no no and no Israel has not done
anything to keep civilians safe let me
give you three examples first of all
Israel has used uh ammunitions that are
meant to create huge destruction even
the Washington Post and in the New York
Times have given a sense have produced
investigative reports uh saying that
Israel has used over 80 Days the uh uh
level of ammunitions that are equal to
two and more than two nuclear bombs in
the Gaza Strip which let's remind is 360
square meters inhabited by two over two
million people second Israel has been
targeting hospitals which are ster ster
under International humanitarian law and
again the the health system is
devastated which is not just critical in
itself it's critical in order to provide
support to people who are injured at the
time of war and and
third Israel has arrested and detained
um medical
personnel doctors nurses abusing them
and even torturing them how can these be
explained this is why special repors
have denounced through and through the
risk of genocide and the health system
speaks clearly to the intent to destroy
the pal inian people in Gaza you
mentioned the word genocide it's a word
that's been used um quite a lot these
past eight weeks can I just bring uh you
to focus on the images also that we've
been seeing in the past 24 hours the
dehumanization as they've been described
of Palestinian people in the occupied
territories the images uh of firstly
partially clothed detainees uh one
assumes at the moment as far as the
Israelis are concerned as as well that
they are civilians but they are being
paraded around like prisoners of war and
I dare say it's frighteningly
reminiscent to anybody watching these
images of historical images that we've
seen in the past of Abu grave in Iraq
shre bran and there I also say images
from World War
II no totally the horror that we are
seeing in Gaza is unmatched because as
you say it it reminds of several cont
text of several words of several horror
and everything is packed in one and
being televised this is what I find
shocking is being televised where the
people in Gaza not only they're bombed
they're killed they're blamed they are
smeared they're
also uh in know in a way displayed in
this pornography of War I I frankly I'm
at loss I have no wor because even even
if even if these people who have been
captured by Israel where Hamas Fighters
they should be treated humanely there
are children there are bodies who
clearly are children in uh in those
footages that have been captured and
shown to the world how can this be legal
this is utterly legal this is Criminal
because even even even combatants are uh
allowed to benefit from the guarantees
of international law meaning being
treated humanely which is not what they
are offered the Israeli Prime Minister
in his um Wall Street Journal article
also talks about der radicalizing the
Palestinian population in Gaza again
giving the impression that everybody is
inverted commas and I quite a terror IST
and that they need to be
deradicalized these people have been
living in what is nothing more than an
open air prison for the last what 15
years if not longer uh and so der rical
and why is why does he think it's his
job to deradicalize a community that
might not even be radicalized to start
with no first of all let's be clear I I
need to correct myself and to correct
including the United Nations for having
CL for having called Gaza an open air
prison it's not an open air prison it's
a ghetto this is what Gaza is and uh
frankly how can we deradicalize people
we don't even know if they're radical
these people I mean half of the
population in Gaza is under 18 they have
not elected they have never voted for
anyone so how do we know that they are
radicalized in the first place but plus
I don't I don't think that the point of
Benjamin nany's uh open head should be
the D der radicalization the point is
that they want to empty Gaza of
Palestinians they are calling for a forc
displacement of Gaza of Palestinians
from Gaza and I've said from the very
first week from the very fifth day of
this military operation I've said this
is ethnic cleansing this is what Israel
has in mind to empty Gaza of the
Palestinians and this is happening
as we speak and this needs to stop there
is only one way to stop it and it's at
CIS fire there is no other way a sisire
a return of the Gaza population to the
houses that are still holding there and
then reconstruction but also holding
Israel accountable Israel is to pay for
what it has done to Gaza in as much as
Hamas is to pay for what it has done to
the Israeli civilians on the 7th of
October in indeed the contradiction here
is and you sort of slly mentioned at the
beginning of this interview is about the
International Community why haven't they
been louder why hasn't the media itself
uh been voicing its outrage at what it
sees here when uh it's been very vocal
about issues historically let's just say
the Balkans and now about Ukraine Joe
Biden has said no ceas fire on one side
and yet he's also said absolutely no
movement uh of pal inian outside of Gaza
he does not want to see Mass migration
he does not want to see another NABA
basically so there is now going to be
some sort of there I said head-to-head
surely between Washington and Tel Aviv
about the way forward there has to
be yeah but I don't see that because
okay two things here first of all Sita
happened happened and the world let it
happen r Randa the genocide in Rwanda
happened and the world let it happen and
at the same and this is the same way the
world is letting a genocide unfolding in
Gaza so to put to put things in context
the world the International Community is
proving once again unable to prevent
atrocity crimes so this is the first
factor that we need to bring in the
second element is that I don't see a
head tohe head between the US and Israel
at all because the US keeps on pushing
Switzerland not to have an International
Conference on the situation in the
occupied Palestinian territory keeps on
pushing to delay the requests for aist
fire a resolution on the ceas fire the
US keeps on sending weapons to to Israel
so there is no head-to-head there is an
enabling of atrocity crimes being
committed by Israel this is what the US
is doing and we cannot we cannot be uh
confused about that so where's the
solution then miss Albania who is if
it's not going to be the US who pushes
either Israel or the us into a position
where they have to move they have to
change their their policy and their
direction are we looking at Russia are
we looking at China are we looking at
the other big players on the security
Council I mean where do you look for
hope I I still think that I there is
hope that the International Community
other than the US Israel Germany nauru
and Marshall Island will wake up but
there might there must be a solution
possible including outside of the
security Council if the security Council
continues to be paralyzed there are
measures that must be taken by other
countries economic diplomatic and
political me measures that each country
can take suspending economic and trade
agreements with Israel stopping arm um
transfer uh declaring an arms embargo
and sanctions there is no other way than
sanctioning Israel the same way the
world had in the western world has
sanctioned uh Russia when it declared
when it started an unlawful war against
UK
why there is an exception for Israel now
we should see what happens it's always
good uh to get your input really
appreciate this extended interview with
you Franchesca albanesi the UN special
rapporter on the occupied palestin
Palestinian territory thanks for joining
us from Milan
ma'am thank you